REBELSTAR RAIDERS
(Red Shift, 1983)

Gameplay instructions and scenario descriptions. Taken from the 
"The Rebelstar Collection" players' manual (Mythos Games Ltd, 
1991). 

Converted to ASCII text format by David J Corbett, 03-dec-2004.



THE REBELST*R COLLECTION

LOADING YOUR GAMES

TAPE USERS
The games are loaded by typing LOAD followed by the file name of 
the game in quotation marks. The file name of each game is given 
in the instructions for the game. Make sure the correct side of 
the correct cassette is in your tape unit. For example, to load 
Nebula rewind cassette number one to the beginning of the second 
side, type LOAD "NEBULA" and press the enter key.

DISK USERS
Reset the machine and insert the correct side of the disk 
containing the game you wish to play and press the enter key. A 
menu will be displayed allowing you to load the game by pressing 
its number.

DIRECTION KEYS
All of the games use the following keys to move a flashing cursor 
around the display, or to move characters on the map.

Q	UP AND LEFT
W	UP
E	UP AND RIGHT
D	RIGHT
C	DOWN AND RIGHT
X	DOWN
Z	DOWN AND LEFT
A	LEFT



REBELSTAR RAIDERS, 1983

FILE NAME: "REBEL"


INTRODUCTION
Rebelstar Raiders is a two player tactical combat game with three 
separate scenarios. Each player controls between twenty and 
thirty characters with individual characteristics and armed with 
various weapons. This was the first computer game of its type, 
and is the fore-runner of 'Rebelstar', 'Rebelstar II' and 'Laser 
Squad'.


LOADING THE SCENARIOS
When the game has loaded stop the tape. Press '1', '2' or '3' to 
select a scenario and start the tape. Refer to the scenario 
descriptions for details of your objectives and deployment.


DEPLOYMENT
When the scenario has loaded, the deployment areas will be 
displayed on the map. Depending on the scenario, one player will 
deploy his characters on one colour and the other player will 
deploy on the other colour. A flashing cursor is used to select 
deployment positions. The cursor is moved using the direction 
keys. The name and weapon of the character to deploy are 
displayed at the top of the screen. Position the cursor and press 
S to deploy. If you have attempted to deploy on the wrong place 
then a warning tone will sound.


GAME TURNS
The game is divided into game turns, and in each game turn each 
character gets a number of movement points which are spent on 
movement and combat. The first player moves and fires with his 
characters until they have either run out of movement points or 
the player wishes to move no more. The other player then has his 
turn. 
At the beginning of each game turn the number of victory points 
that each player has accumulated is displayed. The current game 
turn and the number of game turns remaining are also displayed. 


THE CONTROLS 
The computer can be in three different modes during the game; 
cursor mode, movement mode or ranged combat mode. The controls 
for each mode are as follows;

CURSOR MODE - shown by a flashing cursor. When the cursor is 
moved over a character, its name and weapon are displayed. Use 
the direction keys to move the cursor.

I - Reveals information about a character if the cursor is over 
one. 
P - Reveals information about a character's weapon. 
S - If the cursor is over a character that you control then it is 
selected for movement and the computer changes to movement mode. 
V - The victory points that each player has accumulated are 
displayed. The number of victory points required to win is 
displayed for scenario one and three, and the number of game 
turns remaining is displayed for scenario two. 
0 (zero) - End your turn and give control to the other player.


MOVEMENT MODE - shown by a flashing character. At the top of the 
screen the number of movement points remaining is displayed. Use 
the direction keys to move the character.

I - Displays information about the character. 
P - Displays information about the characters weapon. 
V - Displays the current victory points for each player. 
F - Change to ranged combat mode. 
K - End movement and return to cursor mode.


RANGED COMBAT MODE - Shown by a flashing cursor. Once you have 
fired the weapon the number of rounds left and movement points 
left will be displayed. Use the direction keys to move the cursor 
to the desired target. 

S - Select target. 
K - Cancel ranged combat and return to movement mode.

NOTE 1: If you press I, P or V for information , press any key to 
return to your current mode. 
NOTE 2: If a character runs out of movement points during 
movement or combat then the computer automatically returns to 
cursor mode. 


MOVEMENT 
Moving a character uses up a number of movement points according 
to the terrain. If you attempt to move somewhere impassable a 
warning tone will sound. You cannot move onto a space occupied by 
another character. If you do not have enough movement points to 
move to the desired space then press K to cancel movement. 


COMBAT
In order to attack an enemy in close combat simply move into the 
character in movement mode. In order to use ranged combat you 
must press F to enter ranged combat mode. If a character has no 
ranged weapon or no rounds left then pressing F will have no 
effect. Whichever type of combat is used the chance of being on 
target is displayed. 


WOUNDS AND ENDURANCE 
When a character is hit it will suffer a number of wounds 
depending on the power of the weapon and the armour of the 
target. If a character's endurance falls below a fifth of its 
initial endurance then the character is seriously wounded and 
receives only a half of its movement points in future turns. When 
endurance falls to zero then the character is eliminated. 


SPECIAL WEAPONS
The Photon is an automatic repeating laser gun and fires three 
bursts per attack. Grenades and Starbolts are explosive weapons 
which can destroy walls and obstructions. Gas bombs affect an 
entire character square but do not destroy terrain.


CHARACTER INFORMATION
MPs - The first number is the characters current movement points 
and the number in brackets is its movement point allowance.
END - The first number is the character's current endurance and 
the number in brackets is its initial endurance.
Skill - The character's skill in using its weapon
Armour - The strength of the characters armour.
VPs - The number of victory points awarded for eliminating the 
character.


WEAPON INFORMATION
Hit - The basic percentage chance of being on target. In ranged 
combat the character's skill multiplied by the skill factor of 
the weapon is added to the basic accuracy.
MP. cost - The percentage of a character's movement point 
allowance needed to use the weapon.
Close - The average number of wounds inflicted in close combat.
Range - The ranged combat damage number. A zero means that the 
weapon is for close combat only. The number in brackets is the 
range deterioration. The higher the number then the more rapid is 
the deterioration in damage over distance.
Rounds - The number of rounds left in the weapon.


SCENARIO ONE: MOONBASE

INTRODUCTION
Orbiting Planet Pi (centre of Red Shift's vast organisation) is 
the small moon Spyder. It was the main base for planetary 
defences. The defences consisted of several meason accelerators 
which would be capable of destroying any ship attempting to land 
on the planet. If the raid on Main-Comp was to go ahead then the 
moonbase must be destroyed. The base had been disguised as a 
mining station. The first of the Capricorn clones was to lead 
this attack. The 24 raiders were to storm the tracking station 
and neutralise the control centre (on the top right hand of the 
map). Only one raider need get into the control room to destroy 
the sensitive equipment.

DEPLOYMENT
The moonbase operatives deploy first on the magenta areas. The 
Raiders deploy second on the red areas and move first. Some 
operatives are deployed in preset positions.

OPERATIVES ALREADY DEPLOYED 
3 sentry robots with laser guns 
2 mining robots with grapplers 
2 auto-guns with laser guns

OPERATIVES' ORDER OF DEPLOYMENT 
4 technicians with pistols 
8 security guards with las-pistols 
4 sentry robots with laser guns 
1 mining robot with grapplers

RAIDERS' ORDER OF DEPLOYMENT 
4 photon commanders with photons 
4 raiders with grenades 
16 raiders with laser guns


SCENARIO TWO: STARLINGALE

INTRODUCTION
While the raiders were attacking the moonbase the Starlingale was 
docking nearby in preparation for the escape. The Starlingale 
crew were informed about the successful de-activation of the 
moonbase, but the raiders did not return to the ship. A search 
party was sent to look for survivors. Meanwhile five raiders 
returned to the ship led by Joe Capricorn and the fearless 
Captain Krenon. They were pursued by an assortment of robot 
operatives activated by the Main-comp via a secret transmitter 
hidden in the moonbase. Unfortunately the raiders could not take 
off until hull repairs were completed, so the raiders prepared 
for battle. The operatives must prevent the ship from taking off 
by destroying the two Navcomps on the bridge. If they have not 
succeeded by the end of game turn twelve then the ship takes off 
and the operatives lose the game.

DEPLOYMENT
The raiders deploy first on the magenta areas. The operatives 
deploy second on the blue areas and move first. Some raiders are 
deployed in preset positions and raider reinforcements arrive on 
game turn four.

RAIDERS ALREADY DEPLOYED 
2 Nav-comps
3 pilots with las-pistols
3 plod-bots with las-rifles

RAIDERS ORDER OF DEPLOYMENT 
2 photon commanders with photons 
3 raiders with laser guns 
9 raiders with las-rifles

RAIDER REINFORCEMENTS 
8 raiders with las-rifles

OPERATIVES ORDER OF DEPLOYMENT
4 Zorbotrons with gas bombs
13 fly-bots with zeekers
4 slavers with las-whips
1 mining robot with grapplers
2 security guards with las-pistols


SCENARIO THREE: THE FINAL ASSAULT

INTRODUCTION
The Starlingale escaped from the moonbase and joined the 
Freedream on the planet surface. The raiders gained entrance to 
the four lift shafts which descended to the Main-comps fortified 
shelter. They discovered that the Main-comp was well guarded. 
However they were determined to make the final effort
to destroy the Galactic Corporation.
The raiders must destroy all eight parts of the Main-comp in 
order to win. The operatives must eliminate all the raiders to 
win.

DEPLOYMENT
The operatives deploy first on the blue areas. The raiders deploy 
second on the magenta areas and move first. Some operatives are 
deployed in preset positions.

OPERATIVES ALREADY DEPLOYED
5 sentry robots with laser guns
6 service robots with crushers
8 Main-comp brain elements

OPERATIVES' ORDER OF DEPLOYMENT
6 fly-bots with zeekers
15 guards with las-rifles
2 sentry robots with laser guns

RAIDERS' ORDER OF DEPLOYMENT
2 photon commanders with photons
6 raiders with laser guns
6 raiders with starbolts
15 raiders with las-rifles


<Omitted: NEBULA instructions>
<Omitted: CHAOS instructions>
<Omitted: REBELSTAR instructions>
<Omitted: REBELSTAR 2 instructions>


'The Rebelstar Collection' is published by:

Mythos Games Ltd.
19 The Rows
The High
Harlow
Essex
CM20 1BZ

Copyright 1991, Julian Gollop
